Initial version for .92 Release note (#40266)
microsoft/PowerToys: README.md

Most contributions require you to agree to a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)][oss-CLA] declaring that you grant us the rights to use your contribution and that you have permission to do so.

For guidance on developing for PowerToys, please read the [developer docs](./doc/devdocs) for a detailed breakdown. This includes how to setup your computer to compile.

## What's Happening

### PowerToys Roadmap

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.92 - June 2025 Update

> In this release, we focused on new features, stability, AOT, and automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we focused on new features, stability, optimization improvements, and automation.
```

**✨Highlights**

 - Added an option to hide or show the PowerToys system-tray icon. Thanks [@BLM16](https://github.com/BLM16)!  

>  - Major upgrades to Command Palette, including Ahead-of-Time (AOT) readiness, new extension capabilities, and performance/stability fixes across the core UX and extensions.

Reviewer: is our build of CmdPal in this release AoT?  if not, that should be a bullet point below 'work to enable AoT optimizations continues'.

Author: Not yet, it will be in next release.

>  - Mouse button actions for Color Picker so you can choose what left, right, or middle click does. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!

Reviewer: I'd suggest writing style wise for recaps to do "TOOL now has ...." this enables a user to have quick scanning to see what is relevant for them

- Fixed consistency issue for extensions' alias with "Direct" setting and enabled localization for "Direct" and "Indirect" for better user understanding. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
- Improved visual clarity by styling critical context items correctly.
- Automatically focused the field when only one is present on the content page.
- Improved stability and efficiency when loading file icons in SDK ThumbnailHelper.cs by removing unnecessary operations. Thanks [@OldUser101](https://github.com/OldUser101)!
- Enhanced details view with commands implementation. (See [Extension sample](./src/modules/cmdpal/ext/SamplePagesExtension/Pages/SampleListPageWithDetails.cs))

### Command Palette extensions

- Added "Copy Path" command to *App* search results for convenience. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!
- Improved *Calculator* input experience by ignoring leading equal signs. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!
- Corrected input handling in the *Calculator* extension to avoid showing errors for input with only leading whitespace.

> - Added basic support for Windows App Actions (internal preview) on *File* search results, starting with images and documents, to better integrate into user workflows. Thanks [@azchohfi](https://github.com/azchohfi)! Also, thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti) for fixing a regression in Peek caused by the csWin32 library upgrade as part of this change.

Author: Will remove this one first.

- Improved *New Extension* wizard by validating names to prevent namespace errors.
- Ensured consistent context items display for the *Run* extension between fallback and top-level results.
- Fixed missing *Time & Date* commands in fallback results. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek)!

> - Updated outdated results in the *Time & Date* extension. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed outdated results in the *Time & Date* extension. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek)!
```

- Fixed PDF stream handling to prevent blank previews.  
- Prevented Monaco Preview Handler crash when opening UTF-8-BOM text files.  

### Hosts File Editor

- Added an in-app *“Learn more”* link to warning dialogs for quick guidance. Thanks [@PesBandi](https://github.com/PesBandi)!  

### Mouse Without Borders

- Fixed firewall rule so MWB now accepts connections from IPs outside your local subnet.
- Cleaned legacy logs to reduce disk usage and noise.  

### Peek

- Updated QOI reader so 3-channel QOI images preview correctly in Peek and File Explorer. Thanks [@mbartlett21](https://github.com/mbartlett21)!  
- Added codec detection with a clear warning when a video can’t be previewed, along with a link to the Microsoft Store to download the required codec.

### PowerRename

 - Added support for $YY-$MM-$DD in ModificationTime and AccessTime to enable flexible date-based renaming.

### PowerToys Run

 - Suppressed error UI for known WPF-related crashes to reduce user confusion, while retaining diagnostic logging for analysis. This targets COMException 0xD0000701 and 0x80263001 caused by temporary DWM unavailability.

> ### Registry Preview

Reviewer 2: The new value preview feature is missing here.

Author: Sorry, missed this one.

- Added an option to hide or show the PowerToys system-tray icon. Thanks [@BLM16](https://github.com/BLM16)!  

### Workspaces

- Stored Workspaces icons in user AppData to ensure profile portability and prevent loss during temporary folder cleanup.
- Enabled capture and launch of PWAs on non-default Edge or Chrome profiles, ensuring consistent behavior during creation and execution.

### Documentation

 - Added SpeedTest and Dictionary Definition to the third-party plugins documentation for PowerToys Run. Thanks [@ruslanlap](https://github.com/ruslanlap)!
 - Corrected sample links and typo in Command Palette documentation. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment) and [@roycewilliams](https://github.com/roycewilliams)!

### Development

- Updated .NET libraries to 9.0.6 for performance and security. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler)!  
- Updated WinAppSDK to 1.7.2 for better stability and Windows support.  
- Introduced a one-step local build script that generates a signed installer, enhancing developer productivity.
- Generated portable PDBs so cross-platform debuggers can read symbol files, improving debugging experience in VSCode and other tools.

> - Simplified enabling *Developer Mode* by using [Microsoft.Windows.Settings](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Microsoft.Windows.Settings) module in Winget DSC configuration. Thanks [@mdanish-kh](https://github.com/mdanish-kh)!  

Author: Change to:
Simplified Winget config files by using the [Microsoft.Windows.Settings](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Microsoft.Windows.Settings) module to enable Developer Mode.

- Adjusted build scripts for the latest Az.Accounts module to keep CI green.
- Streamlined release pipeline by removing hard-coded telemetry version numbers, and unified Command Palette versioning with Windows Terminal's versioning method for consistent updates.
- Enhanced the build validation step to show detailed differences between NOTICE.md and actual package dependencies and versions.
- Improved spell-checking accuracy across the repo. Thanks [@rovercoder](https://github.com/rovercoder)!  
- Upgraded CI to TouchdownBuild v5 for faster pipelines.  
- Added context comments to *Resources.resw* to help translators.
  

> ### Test automation

Reviewer: should be in development section.
